>> This is Nuevo.
On December 9, 2009, and
on December 19, 2018,
a tetrahedron, probably
several hundred meters in size,
was videorecorded directly
over the Kremlin in Moscow
and over the Pentagon
in Washington, DC,
the two most sensitive and
protected places on the planet,
without a single fighter
plane approaching
the giant tetrahedron.
A case that remains unknown
to the vast majority.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents Nuevo
with Jaime Maussan.
>> Nuevo will present you a
direct copy of the original
of each and every one of the
videos that were obtained,
as well as the interviews
with each of the witnesses who
obtained these evidences, both
in Washington and in Moscow,
an investigation that could
be one of the most important
and significant of all times.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> On December 9, 2009, a
pyramid-shaped object several
hundred meters long flew
over the Kremlin, Red Square.
It was observed
by some witnesses
and was video recorded up
to two times, day and night.
Nine years and nine days
later, the same pyramid
would be observed by various
witnesses and video recorded
by at least four witnesses from
three different places very
close to the Pentagon
in Washington, D.C.
A pyramid of the two most
sensitive and safe places
on this planet.
If it were real,
these cases could
mean the most significant
event in the history of the UFO
phenomenon.
The implications
are extraordinary.
The questions are
too many, but they
are questions for which
there is no real answer.
For the first time,
all the evidence
and testimonies of an
extraordinary story
are presented, and
that nevertheless
remains unknown to the vast
majority of human beings,
and whose implications
are still unknown.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
On December 9, 2009, three young
men, Dimitri Kazantse, Irakli
and Robert Valtak
were driving in a car
on Red Square in the Kremlin in
Moscow, between 4:00 and 5:00
in the morning,
when they observed
something extraordinary.
Irakli was driving the
car on the Tver Street
when they observed the
giant over the Kremlin.
It looked like a great
pyramid floating in the sky.
Actually, it was a
tetrahedron rotating
in the Cathedral of St. Basil
on the Red Square in Moscow.
Then they approached by
the Moscow River Coast
Avenue of the Kremlin.
As they didn't see clearly
the gigantic object,
they decided to go to a
higher point at the Red Square
to have a better look at it.
This presence remained in
place for several hours,
according to witnesses.
The images are truly
shocking, and the symbolism
of the extraordinary event
is unprecedented in history.
With their camera, they
were able to capture
very revealing images.
Two of the young people
tried to record the object
with their cell phones.
However, they could not
obtain clear images.
Light seemed to be reflected on
the sides of the pyramid, which
was actually a tetrahedron.
This is a faithful copy
of the original, captured
with Dimitiri's cell phone.
This is the first time that
these images are presented
in their original quality.
In this copy, the object is
observed with higher quality.
There is no doubt
of its authenticity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> A few hours later, a witness
who until now could not be
identified could video record
the same object from another
angle.
The video is observed
during the day.
According to the
witnesses, the pyramid
remained for several
hours over the Kremlin.
The video is brief.
It had already dawned in Moscow,
but the object is still there.
It is more than evident
that the authorities
were aware of the extraordinary
case, and yet they did nothing.
They decided to remain silent.
In the image, you can see that
some cars circulate on streets
and that there are
some lights on.
You can hear the characteristic
sounds of a city that wakes up.
It can also be seen momentarily
that the tetrahedron is
rotating.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> These images caused a
sensation throughout the world.
They were presented
by different media.
It would become their most watch
video on YouTube in Russia.
>> [SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> The Kremlin has
been circled by a UFO.
>> [SPEAKING RUSSIAN]
>> The Kremlin has been
encircled by a UFO.
Well, that's if you
believe a video, which
has soared to the top of
YouTube's Russian website.
The pictures, apparently
shot from a passing car,
has become an online sensation.
Another YouTube clip
filmed during daylight
shows a fuzzy, gray object on
the skyline near Red Square.
Skeptics, however, say that
if the images were real,
the public would have
reported sightings
to police, who are
currently making no comment.
>> The prestigious daily,
The Telegraph of England,
published the news
with the title,
A UFO Pyramid Reported
Over the Kremlin.
According to the
text, a giant pyramid
that appears to be a UFO
caused a frenzy of speculation
in Russia that it
was an alien ship.
Witnesses claim that it was
over a kilometer in size,
and that the police
declined to comment.
The Telegraph also
reported that witnesses
stated that the object remained
in place for several hours
and that so far, the
aerospace experts of Russia
had no idea what it was.
On April 25th, 1968,
in Riga, the capital
of Latvia what it was is still
part of the former Soviet
Union, a tetrahedron
was recorded
at high altitude, the most
direct antecedent that
demonstrates the presence of
these objects in our world.
The Soviet Union carried
out a secret study on UFOs.
Journalist George Knapp
visited the Soviet Union
after the fall of
the Iron Curtain
and was able to
obtain these images.
In 1968, there were
no holograms nor CGI.
This image confirms the
extraordinary reality
that occurred on December
9th, 2009 in the Red Square.
>> [SPEAKING SPANISH]
>> While a film crew was filming
the evolutions of a fighter
for a Soviet Army
propaganda film,
the pilot noticed the presence
of a foreign object flying
at high altitudes.
The filming team was notified,
who focused their camera
and were able to film a UFO
shaped like a tetrahedron
at high altitude.
The fighters were ordered
to try to intercept
this object, which, after hiding
behind the clouds, disappeared.
It was later calculated that the
ship was about 11 meters high.
The recording was sent
to the Kremlin, which
hid it from public
opinion for years
and was classified
as top secret.
Only very recently,
the tape was recovered
and could be seen and
presented on television.
No one could give an
answer to this riddle.
In addition to the presence
of the giant tetrahedron
over the Kremlin, on the
morning of December 9th,
another mystery
presented itself.
Simultaneously, that same
night in northern Norway,
a very strange
phenomenon was observed.
An extraordinary spiral
appeared in the sky,
as if it was a signal.
According to the
Russian military,
it could have been a
Bulava nuclear missile
that was launched by
Russia in the wide sea.
They said that the first
two stages worked well,
but that the third stage
strangely did not work.
In the first instance,
they had denied failure
and would do so
until 24 hours later.
However, the
phenomenon was solely
observed in Norway and not
in the territory closer
to the missile test
in Russia or Finland.
The version of the
missile failure
was not confirmed by the
Norwegian Defense Secretary.
It is difficult to accept
that it is an out of control
Bulava missile, that
it produces an image
with such perfect symmetry.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
A day later, on December
10th, President Barack Obama
of the United States would
receive the Nobel Peace
Prize in Stockholm.
Television channels
like the Science Channel
would present a complete report
on the extraordinary mystery.
>> On December 9th, 2009, the
people of Norway are preparing
for the historic arrival
of President Barack Obama.
But for the inhabitants
of one northern town,
the day will be remembered
for a very different reason.
>> It's just before sunrise.
People are getting
ready to go out and take
the kids to school.
Suddenly, they see
a strange light
rising in the east
behind the mountain.
>> News of the weird light in
the mountains spreads fast.
>> People were running
around asking each other,
what the hell is this thing?
>> As the stunned residents look
on, the phenomenon morphs from
a simple glowing beam into
a twisting vortex of light.
Within a few seconds, a giant
spiral hundreds of miles
wide dominates
the predawn skies.
Witnesses are still
trying to understand
what they're seeing, when
without warning, it disappears.
>> As people watched
this amazing sight,
suddenly a black hole appears
in the middle and swallows
the entire apparition.
It's one of most
incredible things
that the people had ever seen.
>> Dozens of videos and photos
of the sightings soon emerged
from witnesses as
far away as Sweden.
It becomes known as
the Spiral Anomaly.
>> Many observers declare
this event an elaborate hoax.
No natural phenomenon could
create such a perfect shape
in the sky.
But as more and more
eyewitness accounts emerge,
it soon becomes clear,
this is a genuine mystery.
>> One theory emerges that the
spiral could be nothing more
than an extreme form of Aurora
Borealis, or Northern Lights.
>> If you lived in Norway,
you're used to seeing
shimmering curtains of
green and pink in the sky.
You're not used to seeing
a big spiral in the sky.
>> People of Norway know what
the Northern Lights look like.
This wasn't it.
>> With natural phenomenon
ruled out as a possible cause,
Norwegians start to suspect the
involvement of Russian military
forces across the nearby border.
>> Russia flatly denies all
knowledge of any strange cloud
or beam of light.
So that begs the question,
what the heck is this thing?
>> The images are
truly extraordinary.
with a degree of perfection
never seen before,
it would seem more like a
demonstration, a message,
as if they had taken the missile
to paint with it in the sky.
[SUSPENSEFUL MUSIC]
>> The absence of hope can
rot a society from within.
And that's why helping
farmers feed their own people
or nations educate their
children and care for the sick
is not mere charity.
It's also why the world
must come together
to confront climate change.
There's little scientific
dispute that if we do nothing,
we will face more drought, more
famine, more mass displacement,
all of which will fuel
more conflict for decades.
For this reason, it is
not merely scientists
and environmental
activists who call
for swift and forceful action.
It's military leaders
in my own country
and others who understand
our common security hangs
in the balance.
Agreements among nations,
strong institutions,
support for human rights,
investments in development.
All these are vital ingredients
in bringing about the evolution
that President
Kennedy spoke about.
And yet, I do not
believe that we
will have the will, the
determination, the staying
power to complete this work
without something more.
And that's the
continued expansion
of our moral imagination,
an insistence
that there's something
irreducible that we all share.
As the world grows
smaller, you might
think it would be
easier for human beings
to recognize how similar we are,
to understand that we're all
basically seeking
the same things,
that we all hope for
the chance to live out
our lives with some measure
of happiness and fulfillment
for ourselves and our families.
>> A few days later,
the Pravda newspaper,
the official newspaper of
the Russian government in its
English version, published
the news of both events.
It incorrectly reported
that the pyramid
had appeared on December
18th and not the same night
that the missile failed.
Dr. Michael Salla
considered the possibility
that the two events had
been interconnected,
that the missile failure
could have been caused
by extraterrestrial beings to
give a signal to the Russian
Federation that the
development of nuclear weapons
was not in the best interest
of Russia or the world.
According to Dr.
Salla, the aliens
would have begun to
act openly to influence
the national security policies
of the two largest superpowers.
Dr. Salla considered that
there is a connection
between both events.
>> Here that was sighted by
multiple witnesses in Moscow
over the Kremlin.
It was a four-sided
triangle, which
is a tetrahedron
similar to a pyramid.
But a pyramid is five sided,
so this was a tetrahedron.
And it was floating over the
Kremlin for several hours.
And people got this
on video, on camera.
There were many, many witnesses.
And this happened
at the same time
as there was a very
large spiral that
appeared over northern Norway
the day before President
Obama was to receive
the Nobel Peace Prize.
And the synchronicity of these
events was very interesting.
And I investigated it
back at the time in 2009.
And my conclusion
was that there was
some linkage between those
different events, that somehow,
the pyramid or the
tetrahedron, it either
was something that
came out of the spiral,
as some people
contend, or it was
something that caused the
spiral, because there was also
a Russian ballistic missile test
that occurred at the same time.
Russia, at the
time, was developing
its ballistic missile for
its new ballistic missile
capable submarines.
It was the Bulava
ballistic missile.
And it malfunctioned,
according to the Russians.
And so the Russians said that
this is what caused the spiral.
But many people believe that
it could not have possibly have
caused the spiral.
The spiral was very different
to a disintegrating or a failed
ballistic missile test.
>> What do you think it was?
Why did this happen?
>> What I think happened
was that basically,
this was an incident that
I think was basically sent
to send--
this was something
that was intended
to send a message that the
development of nuclear weapons
was not a good idea.
>> Dr. Michael Salla is
graduated with a doctorate
in political science from
the University of Queensland
and has taught at different
universities in the United
States.
He is the founder of
Exopolitical Science,
presides over the Institute
Effects of Politics
in Honolulu in Hawaii, has
made various specialized
publications, and is one of
the most respected authorities
in the world, although his
comments aroused the most
opposite reactions.
But each day, he gains
greater acceptance.
>> I think there were
extraterrestrials involved
in this incident.
And that's why they were
really showing the Russians
that this was not a good path.
Because they
basically placed one
of their craft, the tetrahedron,
directly over the Kremlin,
sending a message
that, you know,
your military force
is no match for us.
You really need to go down
a path of global peace.
The Russian government
tried to cover it up.
But nevertheless, we
did have a few people
that were able to upload
this to the internet.
>> Yeah.
We have two videos, one at
night and one in the daytime.
>> That's exactly right.
Yes, we see very clearly
that this was something that
was hovering over the Kremlin.
There were different sources,
photographing and videotaping
this.
And it's very clear that this
was a very large tetrahedron
that basically had some kind of
incredibly advanced technology
so that it could just hover over
the Kremlin for several hours
without displaying any
kind of jet engines
or any kind of
propulsion system.
So you know, it was using some
kind of anti-gravity technology
that we would probably have
developed in secret programs.
But you know, for
a craft that large,
one mile in diameter, that
must have very powerful engines
to have it just sit
over the Kremlin
for several hours
in the early morning
and in the early morning
day, during the day as well.
>> 10 years later, President
Vladimir Putin announced
the result of the development
of the newest and most
sophisticated weapons that
could end life on Earth.
For decades, the
world was on the brink
of a catastrophic nuclear
war between the United States
and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics.
This danger was averted
with the dissolution
of the Soviet bloc in 1991.
But now, the nuclear
threat returns
with a new rivalry
between the United States
and nations such as Russia,
China, Iran, and North Korea.
A new arms race has
begun that could
culminate in the complete
destruction of much
of our planet.
The atomic bomb, the
deadliest man-made weapon,
has evolved since it was first
used by the United States
in 1945 against the population
of the Japanese cities
of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
Today, there are bombs
thousands of times
more powerful than those
detonated in Japan,
and are so small
that they can be
integrated into small
missiles and submarines.
On the other hand,
nuclear powers
could be developing
intercontinental ballistic
missiles with the ability to
hit anywhere on the globe.
This was revealed on
August 18th, 2019,
when an explosion
occurred on a test
platform in the Arkhangelsk
region in the north of Russia,
with a balance of at
least seven deaths
and that released a radiation
to the environment that
was detected miles away.
These are experiments with a new
class of nuclear fuel, material
that, among other applications,
would allow missiles to reach
anywhere on the planet.
The missile, called
9M730 Burevestnik,
is one of the six new
strategic weapons announced
by the president of
Russia, Vladimir Putin,
on March 1st, 2018.
We call it Sarmat.
It will be equipped
with a wide variety
of powerful nuclear munitions,
hypersonic missiles included.
The new system has practically
no limits on a scope.
We call it Kinzhal.
The new missile flies
at hypersonic speed
and even maneuvers
throughout its trajectory.
We successfully launched
a new cruise missile
with a nuclear power
system that guarantees
a flight distance
10 times greater,
so it is practically unlimited.
Russia has developed
unmanned underwater vehicles
capable of operating
at great depths
and traveling
intercontinental distances,
with a speed exceeding several
times that of the fastest
submarines, torpedoes,
and surface ships.
We call this missile Avangard.
It goes towards a target like
a meteorite, like a fireball.
Its surface temperature
reaches between 1,600 and 2,000
degrees Celsius.
This kind of weaponry is not
owned by anyone in the world.
For its part, the
United States is also
developing new nuclear weapons
such as a W76-2 warhead,
a nuclear weapon with a third of
the power of the bomb detonated
in Hiroshima with which the
American submarines are being
equipped, a new strategy
that could increase
the risk of conflict, as
these smaller bombs are more
likely to be used compared
to weapons hundreds
or even thousands of
times more powerful.
Another event that has increased
the risk of armed conflict
is the departure of
the United States,
by order of President
Donald Trump,
from the agreement
reached in 2015 with Iran,
which sought to prevent
this country from developing
nuclear weapons.
Instead, the US president has
implemented economic sanctions
which so far, have
proven to be ineffective.
Since countries like
China and Russia
financially helped the Iranian
regime and those most affected,
it is a people,
in general, which
increases hatred and the
rejection towards the North
American country.
For its part, Iran has
been gradually increasing
the level of uranium
enrichment, increasing tension
and the possibility of a
new armed conflict starting
in the Middle East, war in which
countries such as China, which
has a strong economic
interest in the region,
could be involved.
Not content with ending
all kinds of regulations
to protect the
environment, Donald Trump
seems to be working to make the
world a more dangerous place.
This is demonstrated by the
recent departure of the United
States from the Intermediate
Range Nuclear Forces Treaty,
an agreement signed in 1987 by
then president of the United
States, Ronald
Reagan, and president
of the Soviet Union, Mikhail
Gorbachev, which prohibited
the deployment of all ballistic,
cruise, or shuttle missile
with a range of between
500 and 5,000 kilometers
in European territory.
As a result of that agreement,
by 1991, 2,692 NATO missiles
were destroyed, while the
Soviet Union destroyed 1,846.
Now, the suspension of the
agreement by President Trump
marks the beginning
of a new arms race
and brings us closer to
a large scale conflict.
Today, we are closer
than ever to what
could become a nuclear war.
Atomic weapons have multiplied.
The words of
President Barack Obama
when he received the Nobel
Prize on December 10th, 2009
acquire a relevant meaning
from the extraordinary events
that occurred in
Norway and Russia,
without a doubt, one of the
most extraordinary mysteries
of all time.
>> The non-violence practiced
by men like Gandhi and King may
not have been practical or
possible in every circumstance.
But the love that they preached,
their fundamental faith
in human progress, that must
always be the North Star that
guides us on our journey.
For if we lose that faith, if
we dismiss it as silly or naive,
if we divorce it
from the decisions
that we make on issues
of war and peace,
then we lose what's
best about humanity.
We lose our sense
of possibility.
We lose our moral compass.
Like generations have before
us, we must reject that future.
As Dr. King said at this
occasion so many years ago,
"I refuse to accept despair
as the final response
to the ambiguities of history.
I refuse to accept the idea
that the is-ness of man's
present condition makes him
morally incapable of reaching
up for the eternal ought-ness
that forever confronts him."
Let us reach for the
world that ought to be,
that spark of the
divine that still steers
within each of our souls.
[APPLAUSE]
>> The cases that were
caught on December 9th,
2009 in Russia and Norway
are not only extraordinary,
but are clearly a message, a
warning that, unfortunately,
is being fulfilled.
Today, we are closer than ever
to a possible nuclear war.
However, nine years
after this warning,
it would be presented
again, but now
above the Pentagon in
Washington, a warning that
should not be ignored.
I am Jaime Maussan
and I wait for you
in the next episode of Nuevo.
[INSPIRATIONAL MUSIC]
>> Gaia presented, Nuevo
with Jaime Maussan.